docs/basic_usage.rst, before:

Basic usage
===========

Don't panic
***********

When you are stuck in some command or text field and you are unsure what to do,
press **C-g**. This binding usually let you get out of the current action - you
may have to press it more than once. **C-g** is the universal *get me out of
there* command.

.. note::

  Usually pressing **C-g** enough let you focus on the current web buffer and so
  activate the :keymap:`webbuffer` keymap.


.. current-keymap:: global


Running a command using its name
********************************

It is always possible to run a command using its name. Some commands does not
have default key bindings and so requires to be called this way. To call a
command using its name, use the :key:`M-x` keybinding, then select in the list
(or type) the command you want to run, followed by **Return** (the Enter key).

For example, :key:`M-x` toggle-toolbar <Return> will toggle the webmac's
toolbar.


Live documentation
******************

webmacs is self-documenting. You can have access to it easily by running the
following commands:

- :cmd:`describe-commands` to see all available commands.
- :cmd:`describe-command` (bound to :key:`C-h c`) to choose one command and get
  a detailed description.
- :cmd:`describe-variables` to see all the available variables.
- :cmd:`describe-variable` (bound to :key:`C-h v`) to choose one variable and
  get a detailed description.
- :cmd:`describe-key` (bound to :key:`C-h k`) to discover what a key binding
  would trigger.
- :cmd:`describe-bindings` to see the list of every keymaps, with the bindings
  and commands they contain.


.. note::

  Self-documentation is super useful for many things. If you want for example to
  define a custom binding for a command but you don't know its name, you can
  always use :key:`C-h k` to help you.

  Also, do not hesitate to use :key:`C-h v` to see the description of a
  variable.


.. current-keymap:: webbuffer


Visiting urls
*************

An easy way to go to a new url is to type :key:`g`. This calls the :cmd:`go-to`
command, that lets you type an url or a webjump. Pressing **Return** will
then open it in the current web buffer.

For example, try typing: **g g<tab> webmacs <Return>**. This should open a new
google page with the query webmacs.

.. note::

  Typing **C-u** before :key:`g` will open the url or webjump in a new buffer.


Link hinting
************

Link hinting is used to navigate through visible links of the current web
buffer's page using the keyboard only.

Press :key:`f`. You should see the minibuffer right label displaying that you
are in the :keymap:`hint` keymap, and the links on the page highlighted.

.. current-keymap:: hint

Hinting in webmacs can be done using two methods: filter (the default) and
alphabet. You can use the variable :var:`hint-method` to change it.

filter
------

There is one active hint. Typing text will narrow down the hint selection by
fuzzy matching against the link's texts. It is also possible to directly type
the number of the link to activate it, and to cycle the visible hints (next,
previous) to change the active hint.

Keybindings are as follow:

- :key:`C-n` activate next visible hint
- :key:`C-p` activate previous visible hint

Note to validate hinting, :key:`Return` has to be pressed.

alphabet
--------

This is the method used by default in vimium for example. There is no active
hint, and to each link some characters are associated: there must be entered all
to validate hinting.

Note usually the home row on the keyboard is used to pick up the characters
randomly. This is configured with the variable :var:`hint-alphabet-characters`,
defaulting to the home row characters of a qwerty keyboard.


Buffer selection
****************

Use :key:`C-x b (global)` to open a list on top of the minibuffer of the
currently opened buffers, then select one in there to switch to it. You can
select the buffer you want to switch to by fuzzy-matching text of the url or
title page, or just use the arrow keys (or better, standard emacs bindings such
as **C-n**, **C-p**, **C-v**, **M-v**, etc).

.. note::

  Most of the lists displayed in the minibuffer works in the same way and have
  the same basic bindings.

The command is called :cmd:`switch-recent-buffer`.

.. note::

  The above command order the buffers so the most recently used is on top. If
  you want the buffers to be ordeded by their numbers, you can call the
  command :cmd:`switch-buffer`.


You can also navigate to the next or previous buffer by using respectively
:key:`M-n (global)` and :key:`M-p (global)`.


.. current-keymap:: webbuffer


Navigating through buffer history
*********************************

- :key:`B` goes backward in the buffer history
- :key:`F` goes forward in the buffer history
- :key:`b` shows current buffer's history as a list in the minibuffer and allows
  to navigate in there easily.


Navigating through global history
*********************************

Type :key:`h` to display a list of every visited urls (those are saved in a
database file and are persistent in your profile). Select one to open it in the
current buffer.

.. note::

  Use **C-u** before :key:`h` to open the url in a new buffer.


Scrolling in current web buffer
*******************************

- :key:`C-n` or :key:`n` scroll the current buffer down a bit.
- :key:`C-p` or :key:`p` scroll the current buffer up a bit.
- :key:`C-b` scroll the current buffer left a bit.
- :key:`C-f` scroll the current buffer right a bit.

- :key:`C-v` scroll the current buffer down for one visible page.
- :key:`M-v` scroll the current buffer up for one visible page.

- :key:`M-<` lets you go to the top of the page.
- :key:`M->` lets you go to the bottom of the page.

Zooming
*******

- :key:`+` zoom in.
- :key:`-` zoom out.
- :key:`=` reset the zoom to its default value.

.. note::

  There are variants for the zoom, using the Control modifier (:key:`C-+`,
  :key:`C--`, and :key:`C-=` that are used for text zoom only.

Commit message:

[doc] add searching section in basic usage

docs/basic_usage.rst, after:

Basic usage
===========

Don't panic
***********

When you are stuck in some command or text field and you are unsure what to do,
press **C-g**. This binding usually let you get out of the current action - you
may have to press it more than once. **C-g** is the universal *get me out of
there* command.

.. note::

  Usually pressing **C-g** enough let you focus on the current web buffer and so
  activate the :keymap:`webbuffer` keymap.


.. current-keymap:: global


Running a command using its name
********************************

It is always possible to run a command using its name. Some commands does not
have default key bindings and so requires to be called this way. To call a
command using its name, use the :key:`M-x` keybinding, then select in the list
(or type) the command you want to run, followed by **Return** (the Enter key).

For example, :key:`M-x` toggle-toolbar <Return> will toggle the webmac's
toolbar.


Live documentation
******************

webmacs is self-documenting. You can have access to it easily by running the
following commands:

- :cmd:`describe-commands` to see all available commands.
- :cmd:`describe-command` (bound to :key:`C-h c`) to choose one command and get
  a detailed description.
- :cmd:`describe-variables` to see all the available variables.
- :cmd:`describe-variable` (bound to :key:`C-h v`) to choose one variable and
  get a detailed description.
- :cmd:`describe-key` (bound to :key:`C-h k`) to discover what a key binding
  would trigger.
- :cmd:`describe-bindings` to see the list of every keymaps, with the bindings
  and commands they contain.


.. note::

  Self-documentation is super useful for many things. If you want for example to
  define a custom binding for a command but you don't know its name, you can
  always use :key:`C-h k` to help you.

  Also, do not hesitate to use :key:`C-h v` to see the description of a
  variable.


.. current-keymap:: webbuffer


Visiting urls
*************

An easy way to go to a new url is to type :key:`g`. This calls the :cmd:`go-to`
command, that lets you type an url or a webjump. Pressing **Return** will
then open it in the current web buffer.

For example, try typing: **g g<tab> webmacs <Return>**. This should open a new
google page with the query webmacs.

.. note::

  Typing **C-u** before :key:`g` will open the url or webjump in a new buffer.


Link hinting
************

Link hinting is used to navigate through visible links of the current web
buffer's page using the keyboard only.

Press :key:`f`. You should see the minibuffer right label displaying that you
are in the :keymap:`hint` keymap, and the links on the page highlighted.

.. current-keymap:: hint

Hinting in webmacs can be done using two methods: filter (the default) and
alphabet. You can use the variable :var:`hint-method` to change it.

filter
------

There is one active hint. Typing text will narrow down the hint selection by
fuzzy matching against the link's texts. It is also possible to directly type
the number of the link to activate it, and to cycle the visible hints (next,
previous) to change the active hint.

Keybindings are as follow:

- :key:`C-n` activate next visible hint
- :key:`C-p` activate previous visible hint

Note to validate hinting, :key:`Return` has to be pressed.

alphabet
--------

This is the method used by default in vimium for example. There is no active
hint, and to each link some characters are associated: there must be entered all
to validate hinting.

Note usually the home row on the keyboard is used to pick up the characters
randomly. This is configured with the variable :var:`hint-alphabet-characters`,
defaulting to the home row characters of a qwerty keyboard.


Buffer selection
****************

Use :key:`C-x b (global)` to open a list on top of the minibuffer of the
currently opened buffers, then select one in there to switch to it. You can
select the buffer you want to switch to by fuzzy-matching text of the url or
title page, or just use the arrow keys (or better, standard emacs bindings such
as **C-n**, **C-p**, **C-v**, **M-v**, etc).

.. note::

  Most of the lists displayed in the minibuffer works in the same way and have
  the same basic bindings.

The command is called :cmd:`switch-recent-buffer`.

.. note::

  The above command order the buffers so the most recently used is on top. If
  you want the buffers to be ordeded by their numbers, you can call the
  command :cmd:`switch-buffer`.


You can also navigate to the next or previous buffer by using respectively
:key:`M-n (global)` and :key:`M-p (global)`.


.. current-keymap:: webbuffer


Navigating through buffer history
*********************************

- :key:`B` goes backward in the buffer history
- :key:`F` goes forward in the buffer history
- :key:`b` shows current buffer's history as a list in the minibuffer and allows
  to navigate in there easily.


Navigating through global history
*********************************

Type :key:`h` to display a list of every visited urls (those are saved in a
database file and are persistent in your profile). Select one to open it in the
current buffer.

.. note::

  Use **C-u** before :key:`h` to open the url in a new buffer.


Scrolling in current web buffer
*******************************

- :key:`C-n` or :key:`n` scroll the current buffer down a bit.
- :key:`C-p` or :key:`p` scroll the current buffer up a bit.
- :key:`C-b` scroll the current buffer left a bit.
- :key:`C-f` scroll the current buffer right a bit.

- :key:`C-v` scroll the current buffer down for one visible page.
- :key:`M-v` scroll the current buffer up for one visible page.

- :key:`M-<` lets you go to the top of the page.
- :key:`M->` lets you go to the bottom of the page.


Searching in current web buffer
*******************************

Type :key:`C-s` to start incremental search. Then you can type the text you are
looking for. Press :key:`C-s` again to go to the next match, or :key:`C-r` to go
to the previous match.

.. note::

  :key:`C-r` can also be used to start incremental search.


Zooming
*******

- :key:`+` zoom in.
- :key:`-` zoom out.
- :key:`=` reset the zoom to its default value.

.. note::

  There are variants for the zoom, using the Control modifier (:key:`C-+`,
  :key:`C--`, and :key:`C-=` that are used for text zoom only.
